feat: add a complex example with troubleshooting (#109)
open-component-model/ocm-website: content/en/docs/guides/complex-component-structure-deployment.md

---
title: "Deployment scenario using a aggregate(d) component"
description: "Deploying a microservice architecture with components."
date: 2023-06-20T10:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2023-06-20:00:00+00:00
draft: true
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "gitops-driven-configuration-of-ocm-applications"
weight: 115
toc: true
---

## Prerequisite

We assume that the reader has already read all the previous guides in the component area. This guide discusses a more
complex scenario using plain Localizations and Configurations without the use of [Unpacker](https://github.com/open-component-model/unpacker-controller).

## Constructing the Component

We are going to use [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) in microservices mode. This enables us to deploy several components and configure them
individually.

> Podinfo has three services which we are going to put into individual component descriptors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Podinfo has three services which we are going to model using individual component descriptors.
```

- backend
- frontend
- cache (redis)

We will use the following example application to demonstrate a multi-component structure using `podinfo`: [Podinfo Component](https://github.com/open-component-model/podinfo).

This repository contains the following items:

### Component File

> We are going to use the following component descriptor, which consists of four components: three individual components that represent the podinfo micro services for backend, frontend and cache and one product component that contains references to the individual components. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following component file describes four components: three components that represent the podinfo microservices and one  _aggregate_ component that brings together the podinfo components using _references_.  We refer to the aggregate component as the _product component_.
```

  sources:
  - access:
      commit: 9d294e85d8d3fe7803d1eccbf009619078d30cb9
      ref: refs/heads/main
      repoUrl: https://github.com/open-component-model/podinfo
      type: github
    name: github_com_open_component_model_podinfo
    type: git
    version: 1.0.0
# -- redis component
- name: ocm.software/redis
  version: 1.0.0
  provider:
    name: open-component-model
  labels:
  - name: ocm.software/labels/podinfo/service
    value: redis
  resources:
  - name: config
    type: configdata.ocm.software
    input:
      type: file
      mediaType: application/yaml
      path: redis/config.yaml
      compress: true
  - name: image
    relation: external
    type: ociImage
    version: 6.0.1
    access:
      type: ociArtifact
      imageReference: redis:6.0.1
  - name: manifests
    type: kustomize.ocm.fluxcd.io
    input:
      type: dir
      path: redis/manifests
      compress: true
  sources:
  - access:
      commit: 9d294e85d8d3fe7803d1eccbf009619078d30cb9
      ref: refs/heads/main
      repoUrl: https://github.com/open-component-model/podinfo
      type: github
    name: github_com_open_component_model_podinfo
    type: git
    version: 1.0.0

```

> First, we build a component out from this using `ocm` by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the components modeled we can start to build a component archive using the `ocm`  cli:
```

```

> ocm add componentversions --create components.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ocm add componentversions --create --file component-archive components.yaml
```

  adding reference ocm.software/podinfo/backend: "name"="backend","version"="1.0.0"...
  adding reference ocm.software/podinfo/frontend: "name"="frontend","version"="1.0.0"...
  adding reference ocm.software/redis: "name"="redis","version"="1.0.0"...
adding component ocm.software/podinfo/backend:1.0.0...
  adding resource configdata.ocm.software: "name"="config","version"="<componentversion>"...
  adding resource ociImage: "name"="image","version"="6.2.0"...
  adding resource kustomize.ocm.fluxcd.io: "name"="manifests","version"="<componentversion>"...
adding component ocm.software/podinfo/frontend:1.0.0...
  adding resource configdata.ocm.software: "name"="config","version"="<componentversion>"...
  adding resource ociImage: "name"="image","version"="6.2.0"...
  adding resource kustomize.ocm.fluxcd.io: "name"="manifests","version"="<componentversion>"...
adding component ocm.software/redis:1.0.0...
  adding resource configdata.ocm.software: "name"="config","version"="<componentversion>"...
  adding resource ociImage: "name"="image","version"="6.0.1"...
  adding resource kustomize.ocm.fluxcd.io: "name"="manifests","version"="<componentversion>"...
```

> This should have created a folder called `transport-archive`. The structure of that should look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a folder called `component-archive`. The structure of that should look something like this:
```

    ├── sha256.3c9c902ce013ca070a29634e4603c90063c96df632ef2c8e6b4447aaeb70b67e
    ├── sha256.3dc6209959eb782fa6f5f44892f66e9657276735bfb40407bd00ddca30d0a9d1
    ├── sha256.654debd65dbadbcee73e55b675980865ddf22acffcec166c59a5e48a213e4dd5
    ├── sha256.699ea8628e39256048cd1687c496fe64999a41f16f200ef5ce938ee9f19c37f0
    ├── sha256.70a47378c043721e3099801dec02c44b1dd9cdef0ebf79c55784eb4666bdbc29
    ├── sha256.773b28fb63f1195ff73e328744639ddc1c574d58c1e723d6e386fcd66b45bd9c
    ├── sha256.893be914eebd8230ef848ea82b3433c6201152f5d9925e7b5b8d68e0cec7133e
    ├── sha256.92991cf391167c928f3afe6891001f3dd325b64ce800cf34fad4c038141fc57f
    ├── sha256.98ca4d46130f5c09a704b3d8ee9af94de3c0ac73d7e990df53e64606c418fea8
    ├── sha256.a779270c2fea310835d3125de90e089e423c9730a98f1acdda328470d21fced0
    ├── sha256.a7dd532f80e8417ed33cf0c97328582847017895fc5146e499bdf4c94a9d17b5
    ├── sha256.cae4365f264251c616210707aa4765bd95f23fd22f98abc68bae9f58d6e4506d
    ├── sha256.ee79c92bbcce9e7a98f07c6577fd56dd45cf6f7c2d3115216ee249f42119030e
    └── sha256.f6a82a23220752c232e5f66ce46f0be28b27a5af19474072c77dac6d1feb0c16

2 directories, 19 files
```

> These blobs are OCI layers. They contain information about our podinfo application. If we cat a random blob we get

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These blobs contain the resources we described when modelling our podinfo application. If we `cat `a random blob we get
```

something like this:
```
cat sha256.3c9c902ce013ca070a29634e4603c90063c96df632ef2c8e6b4447aaeb70b67e
{"componentDescriptorLayer":{"mediaType":"application/vnd.ocm.software.component-descriptor.v2+yaml+tar","digest":"sha256:699ea8628e39256048cd1687c496fe64999a41f16f200ef5ce938ee9f19c37f0","size":2560}}%
```

Next, we transfer this component to a location of your choice. For example:

```

> ocm transfer component ./transport-archive ghcr.io/skarlso/mpas-demo-component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ocm transfer component ./component-archive ghcr.io/skarlso/mpas-demo-component
```

> ocm transfer component ./transport-archive ghcr.io/skarlso/mpas-demo-component

Reviewer: I don't think we should make any reference to MPAS here.

transferring version "ocm.software/podinfo:1.0.2"...
...adding component version...
transferring version "ocm.software/podinfo/backend:1.0.0"...
...resource 0...
...resource 2...
...adding component version...
transferring version "ocm.software/podinfo/frontend:1.0.0"...
...resource 0...
...resource 2...
...adding component version...
transferring version "ocm.software/redis:1.0.0"...
...resource 0...
...resource 2...
...adding component version...
4 versions transferred
```

> Now, we should have a component that we can use and deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the transfer complete, we now have a component that we can use and deploy.
```

> 

Reviewer: ## Deploying to Kubernetes

### ComponentVersion

> We start by creating a pull secret since the component that we just transferred is private. This pull secret will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start by creating an image pull secret since the component that we just transferred is private. This pull secret will be
```

used by OCM to access this package in ghcr. To create the secret, run:

```
kubectl create secret docker-registry pull-secret -n ocm-system \
    --docker-server=ghcr.io \
    --docker-username=$GITHUB_USER \
    --docker-password=$GITHUB_TOKEN \
    --docker-email=$GITHUB_EMAIL
```

> We start by applying the components version main object to reconcile the component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start by applying a `ComponentVersion` custom resource that will reconcile the podinfo component.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: ComponentVersion
metadata:
  name: podinfocomponent-version
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  component: ocm.software/podinfo
  interval: 10m0s
  references:
    expand: true
  repository:
    url: ghcr.io/skarlso/mpas-demo-component # this should be where you transferred the component.
    secretRef:
      name: pull-secret
  version:
    semver: 1.0.2
```

> This will reconcile the version into the cluster for the rest of objects to gather data from. If everything was successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will reconcile the `ComponentDescriptor` for the specific version, making the component metadata available for other Kubernetes resources to consume. If everything was successful
```

    componentDescriptorRef:
      name: ocm.software-podinfo-1.0.2-2456627037531301773
      namespace: ocm-system
    name: ocm.software/podinfo
    references:
    - componentDescriptorRef:
        name: ocm.software-podinfo-backend-1.0.0-3945706267509967991
        namespace: ocm-system
      name: backend
      version: 1.0.0
    - componentDescriptorRef:
        name: ocm.software-podinfo-frontend-1.0.8-11612684200430752646
        namespace: ocm-system
      name: frontend
      version: 1.0.8
    - componentDescriptorRef:
        name: ocm.software-redis-1.0.0-6199010409340612397
        namespace: ocm-system
      name: redis
      version: 1.0.0
    version: 1.0.2
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-06-21T10:59:22Z"
    message: 'Applied version: '
    observedGeneration: 1
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  observedGeneration: 1
  reconciledVersion: 1.0.2

```

The important bits here are the `references`. These are all the components that the top component contains. These
references are used to fetch and identify component dependencies. This component will also contain which version was
last reconciled.

### ComponentDescriptor

> Taking a look at one of the component descriptor refs...:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also examine the component descriptors using the following command:
```kubectl get componentdescriptors```

``

        mediaType: application/yaml
        ref: ghcr.io/skarlso/podify/component-descriptors/ocm.software/podinfo/backend
        size: 354
        type: ociBlob
      localReference: sha256:4a9fd7d9d861aff437746c170b199d15539044405f1b822e316ef49ac5f99db8
      mediaType: application/yaml
      type: localBlob
    name: config
    relation: local
    type: configdata.ocm.software
    version: 1.0.0
  - access:
      imageReference: ghcr.io/stefanprodan/podinfo:6.2.0
      type: ociArtifact
    name: image
    relation: external
    type: ociImage
    version: 6.2.0
  - access:
      globalAccess:
        digest: sha256:c61bc74d0b5ecfcca20b447c10d97d07a3cec649e1fc57a25f08fc93fcf42fde
        mediaType: application/x-tgz
        ref: ghcr.io/skarlso/podify/component-descriptors/ocm.software/podinfo/backend
        size: 963
        type: ociBlob
      localReference: sha256:c61bc74d0b5ecfcca20b447c10d97d07a3cec649e1fc57a25f08fc93fcf42fde
      mediaType: application/x-tgz
      type: localBlob
    name: manifests
    relation: local
    type: kustomize.ocm.fluxcd.io
    version: 1.0.0
  version: 1.0.0
```

> This descriptor will contain all the resource references that this component contains and will be used to fetch
> identities of these references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This descriptor specifies the location of the component's resource based on the current context (`globalAccess`). We can use this information to retrieve the resource from a storage layer that is accessible within our current environment.
```

> ### Backend

Reviewer: We've jumped here back to describing component contents which makes the flow hard to follow.

Author: Yeah, I shuffled around things. Now it's okay. :D 

```
- [Prerequisite](#prerequisite)
- [Constructing the Component](#constructing-the-component)
  - [Component File](#component-file)
  - [Podinfo Components](#podinfo-components)
- [Constructing the Kubernetes Objects](#constructing-the-kubernetes-objects)
  - [ComponentVersion](#componentversion)
  - [ComponentDescriptor](#componentdescriptor)
  - [Localizations and Configurations](#localizations-and-configurations)
- [Understanding the moving parts](#understanding-the-moving-parts)
  - [Localization](#localization)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [FluxDeployment](#fluxdeployment)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Controller Logs](#controller-logs)
  - [Object statuses](#object-statuses)
  - [Common issues](#common-issues)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

```

    - `configmap.yaml`
        - contains configuration options such as `PODINFO_UI_COLOR`
    - `deploy.yaml`
        - the deployment configuration. __note__ that this deployment yaml contains an image setting that will be configured.
        ```yaml
            spec:
            containers:
            - name: backend
                image: not-an-image
        ```
    - `kustomization.yaml` makes sure only the relevant files are applied
    - `service.yaml` to expose the service endpoint and make discoverable
- `config.yaml`
    - contains the configuration and localization rules which will be applied to the deployment file.
        - Localization
            - will use an `image` resource to replace the above image value with the correct one
        - Configuration
            - will use the config information to configure some default values for those values such as color and message.

### Frontend

Frontend contains the same file structure as backend. The only differences are the deployed services.

### Cache

The cache contains the same resources as backend. The only differences are the values of those deployments.

## Constructing the Localizations and Configurations

> Normally, these objects would be created for use by [Unpacker](https://github.com/open-component-model/unpacker-controller) or by the [MPAS System](https://github.com/open-component-model/MPAS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
No need to introduce this concept here.

Here, we'll create the localization and configuration YAML by hand and then apply it to the cluster.

We have to create three of each of these components. Localization, Configuration and a FluxDeployer. One for each
component version.

### Backend

We don't have any configuration for the backend but our localization rules are present inside the ConfigData object. So we'll
point at that. And we'll use the `image` resource for localizing the deployment.

```yaml
# Localization
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: Localization
metadata:
  name: backend-localization
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  configRef:
    kind: ComponentVersion
    name: podinfocomponent-version
    namespace: ocm-system
    resourceRef:
      name: config
      referencePath:
      - name: backend
      version: 1.0.0
  interval: 10m0s
  sourceRef:
    kind: ComponentVersion
    name: podinfocomponent-version
    namespace: ocm-system
    resourceRef:
      name: manifests
      referencePath:
      - name: backend
      version: 1.0.0
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Why do we create the configuration if we don't need it?

  interval: 10m0s
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Localization
    name: frontend-localization
    namespace: ocm-system
```

```yaml
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: FluxDeployer
metadata:
  name: frontend-kustomization
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  kustomizationTemplate:
    prune: true
    targetNamespace: default
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Configuration
    name: frontend-configuration
    namespace: ocm-system
```

To apply them, simply run this command from the podinfo root:

```
kubectl apply -f frontend/components
```

### Redis

Redis is exactly the same as the above two. Just with different names and pointing to the redis resource. Try creating
these yourself to see if you understood the structure. If you get stuck, you can always take a peek under
[podinfo/redis/components](https://github.com/open-component-model/podinfo/tree/f6fd27a94a5cf39784754858bd2a139bd90e0ad9/redis/components).

To apply them, simply run this command from the podinfo root:

```
kubectl apply -f redis/components
```

## Understanding the moving parts

How does the whole flow work?

> ![mpas-flow](/images/mpas-workflow.png)

Reviewer: again we should avoid any reference to MPAS.

Author: Ops I think just named it incorrectly because I was working on maps too. Thanks good spot.

ocm-system   cache-configuration-kcjiqzy      True    Snapshot with name 'cache-configuration-kcjiqzy' is ready
ocm-system   cache-localization-u2h3old       True    Snapshot with name 'cache-localization-u2h3old' is ready
ocm-system   frontend-configuration-ut3u6pm   True    Snapshot with name 'frontend-configuration-ut3u6pm' is ready
ocm-system   frontend-localization-tgqfwwk    True    Snapshot with name 'frontend-localization-tgqfwwk' is ready
➜  k get componentversion -A
NAMESPACE    NAME                       READY   VERSION   AGE    STATUS
ocm-system   podinfocomponent-version   True    1.0.16    9m8s   Applied version: 1.0.16
➜  k get componentdescriptor -A
NAMESPACE    NAME                                                       AGE
ocm-system   ocm.software-podinfo-1.0.16-2456627037531301773            9m27s
ocm-system   ocm.software-podinfo-backend-1.0.0-3945706267509967991     9m25s
ocm-system   ocm.software-podinfo-frontend-1.0.8-11612684200430752646   9m23s
ocm-system   ocm.software-redis-1.0.0-6199010409340612397               9m21s
```

All of the components should have their localization, configuration, and fluxdeployer.

> Contains the main component and all the references to all other components that might exist.

Reviewer: Something is missing here?

Author: Right.

  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Localization
    name: backend-localization
    namespace: ocm-system
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-06-20T12:28:47Z"
    message: Reconciliation success
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  latestConfigVersion: 1.0.16
  latestSourceVersion: 1.0.16
  observedGeneration: 2
  snapshotName: backend-configuration-v5l2oag
```

The important details here are the `configRef` field and the `sourceRef` field. The `configRef` field defines where the
configuration values are located at. Something like:

```yaml
configuration:
  defaults:
    message: "Welcome to the backend service"
  schema:
    type: object
    additionalProperties: false
    properties:
      replicas:
        type: string
      message:
        type: string
  rules:
  - value: (( message ))
    file: configmap.yaml
    path: data.PODINFO_UI_MESSAGE
```

**Note**. This configuration has a source that is pointing at the `Localization` resource that we created. This is
important because the configuration needs to work on the localized entities. Once it's reconciled, it will create a

> `Snapshot`. That snapshot contains the created resources that have been configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Snapshot`. That snapshot contains the input resources that have been transformed using the supplied configuration rules.
```

### FluxDeployment

> Next, comes the `FluxDeployment`. The `FluxDeployment` will point to the last item in the change of transformations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, comes the `FluxDeployment`. The `FluxDeployment` will point to the last Snapshot in the chain of transformations
```

  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Configuration
    name: backend-configuration
    namespace: ocm-system
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-06-20T12:29:23Z"
    message: FluxDeployer 'backend-kustomization' is ready
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  kustomization: ocm-system/backend-kustomization
  observedGeneration: 2
```

This creates a [Kustomization](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomization/) object. The Kustomization
object is used to reconcile the created component into the target namespace. We have three of these for each component
for which we would like to apply the results.

## Troubleshooting

Once all objects are applied, we should see `podinfo` deployed in the `default` namespace:

```
kubectl get pods
NAME                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
backend-6dd8f5fbf8-xfdmq    1/1     Running   0          54m
frontend-56ff5b9864-h8fgh   1/1     Running   0          54m
redis-7475dd84c4-hzp2b      1/1     Running   0          54m
```

__Note__: pod count might vary based on the default settings in the configuration data.

> If the deployment isn't appearing, there are several places to check for errors:

Reviewer: Perhaps add a dedicated heading for debugging.

---
title: "Deployment scenario using a complex component"
description: "Deploying a complex microservice architecture component."
date: 2023-06-20T10:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2023-06-20:00:00+00:00
draft: true
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "gitops-driven-configuration-of-ocm-applications"
weight: 115
toc: true
---

## Prerequisite

We assume that the reader has already read all the previous guides in the component area. This guide discusses a more

> complex scenario using plain Localizations and Configurations without the use of Unpacker.

Reviewer: should have a link to the Unpacker controller

## Constructing the Component

We are going to use [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) in microservices mode. This enables us to deploy several components and configure them
individually.

> Podinfo has three components which we are going to put into individual component descriptors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Podinfo has three services which we are going to put into individual component descriptors.
```

- backend
- frontend
- cache (redis)

> We will use the following example application to demonstrate multi-component structure: [Podinfo Component](https://github.com/open-component-model/podinfo).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will use the following example application to demonstrate a multi-component structure using `podinfo`: [Podinfo Component](https://github.com/open-component-model/podinfo).
```

This repository contains the following items:

### Makefile

> A `Makefile` that can be used to build the component and push it to a user repository.

Reviewer: if we are going to show how to build the component, i think a component file would be the better approach.

Reviewer 2: I also think providing the needed file structure and `ocm cli` commands in order to build the component is better for demonstration purpose. The `makefile` is another level of complexity for beginners.

Author: Fair point. However, at this point, there were several guides introducing the OCM CLI functionality. Do we really want to repeat that here? Shouldn't the reader be already aware of them?

Reviewer 3: I second @souleb here and would also be more verbose using ocm tools native command. Let's better repeat something that we already mentioned at another place, than to introduce another level of complexity with the makefile.

Author: Okay then.

To build the component, edit the `PROVIDER` and the `OCI_REPO` in the Makefile and update the references in `reference.yaml`.

Now run `make ca`.

```
make ca
ocm create ca -f github.com/skarlso/podify v1.0.2 --provider skarlso -F gen/ca --scheme ocm.software/v3alpha1
ocm add references gen/ca references.yaml
processing references.yaml...
  processing document 1...
    processing index 1
  processing document 2...
    processing index 1
  processing document 3...
    processing index 1
found 3 references
adding reference github.com/skarlso/backend: "name"="backend","version"="v1.0.2"...
adding reference github.com/skarlso/frontend: "name"="frontend","version"="v1.0.1"...
adding reference github.com/skarlso/cache: "name"="cache","version"="v1.0.0"...

```

Then, to push it to the repository, run `make push`.

```
make push

> ocm create ca -f github.com/skarlso/podify v1.0.2 --provider skarlso -F gen/ca --scheme ocm.software/v3alpha1

Reviewer: make push seems to be running make build first

ocm add references gen/ca references.yaml
processing references.yaml...
  processing document 1...
    processing index 1
  processing document 2...
    processing index 1
  processing document 3...
    processing index 1
found 3 references
adding reference github.com/skarlso/backend: "name"="backend","version"="v1.0.2"...
adding reference github.com/skarlso/frontend: "name"="frontend","version"="v1.0.1"...
adding reference github.com/skarlso/cache: "name"="cache","version"="v1.0.0"...
ocm transfer component -f gen/ca ghcr.io/skarlso
transferring version "github.com/skarlso/podify:v1.0.2"...
...adding component version...
1 versions transferred
```

### Backend

> The backend resources contain the following relevant data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The backend files contain the following relevant data:
```

- manifests
    - `configmap.yaml`
        - contains configuration options such as `PODINFO_UI_COLOR`
    - `deploy.yaml`

>         - the deployment configuration. _note_ that this deployment yaml contains an image setting that will be configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - the deployment configuration. __note__ that this deployment yaml contains an image setting that will be configured.
```

        ```yaml
            spec:
            containers:
            - name: backend
                image: not-an-image
        ```
    - `kustomization.yaml` makes sure only the relevant files are applied

>     - `service.yaml` to expose the communication between services

Reviewer 2: maybe `to expose the service endpoint and make discoverable`?

- `configdata.yaml`
    - contains the configuration and localization rules which will be applied to the deployment file.
        - Localization
            - will use an `image` resource to replace the above image value with the correct one
        - Configuration
            - will use the config information to configure some default values for those values such as color and message.
- `resource.yaml`
    - contains the resources which point to the above elements

>     - _note_ that manifests _MUST_ be a directory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - __note__ that manifests __MUST__ be a directory
```

### Frontend

> Frontend contains the same resources as backend. The only differences are the values of those deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Frontend contains the same file structure as backend. The only differences are the deployed services.
```

### Cache

The cache contains the same resources as backend. The only differences are the values of those deployments.

## Constructing the Localizations and Configurations

> Normally, these objects would be created for use. But once we have the component, let's create the localization and

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the first sentence.

configuration objects by hand. We will need to apply these objects, like the component version, to the cluster. This
can be done either by hand or by using flux.

We have to create three of each of these components. Localization, Configuration and a FluxDeployer. One for each
component version.

### Backend

> We don't have the backend configuration but our localization rules are also inside the same ConfigData object. So we'll

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We don't have any configuration for the backend but our localization rules are present inside the ConfigData object. So we'll
```

      referencePath:
      - name: backend
      version: 1.0.0
  interval: 10m0s
  sourceRef:
    kind: ComponentVersion
    name: podinfocomponent-version
    namespace: ocm-system
    resourceRef:
      name: manifests
      referencePath:
      - name: backend
      version: 1.0.0
```

```yaml
# Configuration
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: backend-configuration
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  configRef:
    kind: ComponentVersion
    name: podinfocomponent-version
    namespace: ocm-system
    resourceRef:
      name: config
      referencePath:
      - name: backend
      version: 1.0.0
  interval: 10m0s
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Localization
    name: backend-localization
    namespace: ocm-system
```

```yaml
# FluxDeployment
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: FluxDeployer
metadata:
  name: backend-kustomization
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  kustomizationTemplate:
    prune: true
    targetNamespace: default
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Configuration
    name: backend-configuration
    namespace: ocm-system
```

> And that's it.

Reviewer 2: maybe add the cmds to apply it?

Author: ops, I'll add this

      name: config
      referencePath:
      - name: frontend
      version: 1.0.0
  interval: 10m0s
  sourceRef:
    kind: ComponentVersion
    name: podinfocomponent-version
    namespace: ocm-system
    resourceRef:
      name: manifests
      referencePath:
      - name: frontend
      version: 1.0.0
```

```yaml
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: frontend-configuration
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  configRef:
    kind: ComponentVersion
    name: podinfocomponent-version
    namespace: ocm-system
    resourceRef:
      name: config
      referencePath:
      - name: frontend
      version: 1.0.0
  interval: 10m0s
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Localization
    name: frontend-localization
    namespace: ocm-system
```

```yaml
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: FluxDeployer
metadata:
  name: frontend-kustomization
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  kustomizationTemplate:
    prune: true
    targetNamespace: default
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Configuration
    name: frontend-configuration
    namespace: ocm-system
```

### Redis

> Redis is exactly the same as the above two. Just with different names and pointing to the redis resource. Try creating

Reviewer 2: for a guide we should provide those, maybe just the parts that are different.

Author: we are providing those: https://github.com/open-component-model/podinfo/

Author: Actually, I'll add all the components to the podinfo app.

these.

## Understanding the moving parts

How does the whole flow work?

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: I don't think our Hugo build supports mermaid atm... need to figure out how to enable 😄

Author: Oh shit. :D you're right

    A[Podinfo Component Version]-->C[Frontend Component Descriptor];
    A[Podinfo Component Version]-->D[Cache Component Descriptor];
    B[Backend Component Descriptor]-->F[Localization];
    F[Localization]-->E[Configuration];
    C[Frontend Component Descriptor]-->G[Localization];
    G[Localization]-->H[Configuration];
    D[Cache Component Descriptor]-->I[Localization];
    I[Localization]-->J[Configuration];
    E[Configuration]-->K[FluxDeployer];
    H[Configuration]-->M[FluxDeployer];
    J[Configuration]-->N[FluxDeployer];
    K[FluxDeployer]-->L[Deploy all of the generated YAML using flux Kustomization]
    M[FluxDeployer]-->L[Deploy all of the generated YAML using flux Kustomization]
    N[FluxDeployer]-->L[Deploy all of the generated YAML using flux Kustomization]
```

`ocm-controller` creates `ComponentDescriptor` objects for each referenced component version. Those component descriptors
will contain all the resources that those versions have such as the manifest files, configuration, deployment files, etc.

It will use this dependency graph to lookup resource data in the right component version.

Let's take a look at each object in the cluster next.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```shell
```

> k get localizations -A

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl get localizations -A
```

ocm-system   cache-localization-u2h3old       True    Snapshot with name 'cache-localization-u2h3old' is ready
ocm-system   frontend-configuration-ut3u6pm   True    Snapshot with name 'frontend-configuration-ut3u6pm' is ready
ocm-system   frontend-localization-tgqfwwk    True    Snapshot with name 'frontend-localization-tgqfwwk' is ready
➜  k get componentversion -A
NAMESPACE    NAME                       READY   VERSION   AGE    STATUS
ocm-system   podinfocomponent-version   True    1.0.16    9m8s   Applied version: 1.0.16
➜  k get componentdescriptor -A
NAMESPACE    NAME                                                       AGE
ocm-system   ocm.software-podinfo-1.0.16-2456627037531301773            9m27s
ocm-system   ocm.software-podinfo-backend-1.0.0-3945706267509967991     9m25s
ocm-system   ocm.software-podinfo-frontend-1.0.8-11612684200430752646   9m23s
ocm-system   ocm.software-redis-1.0.0-6199010409340612397               9m21s
```

All of the components should have their localization, configuration, and fluxdeployer.

### ComponentVersion

Contains the main component and all the references to all other components that might exist. A healthy `ComponentVersion`

> looks something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
looks like this:
```

spec:
  configRef:
    kind: ComponentVersion
    name: podinfocomponent-version
    namespace: ocm-system
    resourceRef:
      name: config
      referencePath:
      - name: backend
      version: 1.0.0
  interval: 10m0s
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Localization
    name: backend-localization
    namespace: ocm-system
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-06-20T12:28:47Z"
    message: Reconciliation success
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  latestConfigVersion: 1.0.16
  latestSourceVersion: 1.0.16
  observedGeneration: 2
  snapshotName: backend-configuration-v5l2oag
```

The important details here are the `configRef` field and the `sourceRef` field. The `configRef` field defines where the
configuration values are located at. Something like:

```yaml
configuration:
  defaults:
    message: "Welcome to the backend service"
  schema:
    type: object
    additionalProperties: false
    properties:
      replicas:
        type: string
      message:
        type: string
  rules:
  - value: (( message ))
    file: configmap.yaml
    path: data.PODINFO_UI_MESSAGE
```

> Now, note. This configuration has a source that is pointing at the `Localization` resource that we created. This is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**. This configuration has a source that is pointing at the `Localization` resource that we created. This is
```

important because the configuration needs to work on the localized entities. Once it's reconciled, it will create a

> Snapshot. That snapshot contains the created resources that have been configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Snapshot`. That snapshot contains the created resources that have been configured.
```

which is the `Configuration`. It looks something like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
kind: FluxDeployer
metadata:
  name: backend-kustomization
  namespace: ocm-system
spec:
  kustomizationTemplate:
    prune: true
    targetNamespace: default
  sourceRef:
    apiVersion: delivery.ocm.software/v1alpha1
    kind: Configuration
    name: backend-configuration
    namespace: ocm-system
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-06-20T12:29:23Z"
    message: FluxDeployer 'backend-kustomization' is ready
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  kustomization: ocm-system/backend-kustomization
  observedGeneration: 2
```

This creates a [Kustomization](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomization/) object. The Kustomization
object is used to reconcile the created component into the target namespace. We have three of these for each component
for which we would like to apply the results.

## Troubleshooting

Once all objects are applied, we should see `podinfo` deployed in the `default` namespace:

```

> k get pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl get pods
```

NAME                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
backend-6dd8f5fbf8-xfdmq    1/1     Running   0          54m
frontend-56ff5b9864-h8fgh   1/1     Running   0          54m
redis-7475dd84c4-hzp2b      1/1     Running   0          54m
```

> _Note_: pod count might vary based on the default settings in the configuration data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__Note__: pod count might vary based on the default settings in the configuration data.
```
